# Essay Questions  

---  

###Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?  
Technology has been something that I've been interested in throughout my life, however it wasn't until later in high school and college that I really dove into the tech world. Roughly a year and a half ago I started running through the HTML/CSS track on Code Academy. However, as graduate school started I had to put that to the side in favor of focusing on meeting my degree requirements.This summer was when I jumped back into coding full swing. I started working through a **C++ textbook** (*C++ Through Game Programming*), the **Ruby track on Code Academy** as well as finishing the entire **Jumpstart Curriculum**.  
My real interest in programming started when I worked as a researcher, my boss gave me full control over redesigning his website, as many of the menus were overrun with options. I initiated a soft overhall of the [website](https://nkleadershipwatch.wordpress.com "North Korea Leadership Watch"), reducing the dropdown menus and creating list pages where all the [biographies] (https://nkleadershipwatch.wordpress.com/leadership-biographies "NKLW Biographies") were complied onto one page instead of each individual biography being on a dropdown. However my lack of technical skills limited the amount of redesign that I could do and while I achieved the minimum product I knew that I could have done more with even a little more capabilites in CSS or HTML. And it was after I left that position that I started to consider pursuing coding.  
I looked into various programs where I could learn coding, including Ada, however as I was committed to another year of graduate school I was unable to seriously pursue coding, and I wouldn't get credit as a graduate student for the basic coding classes that I wanted to take. One of the other major motivators for me pursuing coding is that, the one thing I've always wanted from the career is one where I'm constantly learning new things. Originally I thought that I would find that through academia, however, after experiencing traditional academia I realized it wasn't something that I was passionante enough to continue in. And honestly I think I realized that when I was a year into my masters.  

---
### If you're accepted to our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?  
coding software, potentially developing apps or websites for fun on the side, if I decide to do more corporate coding I would be interested in leading teams in the long term future.  

I could see myself doing a lot of different thing in the coding world. I'm primarily interested in being apart of a team that's working on code. I could see myself doing either front end or back end work, but I'm leaning 60/40 towards front end. I think no matter what kind of code I worked on for my career I would dabble in app development and website design on the side, and depending on opportunity and circumstance that could be what I ended up doing full time.  
I think if I ended up in a more traditional corporate atomesphere I would be interested in eventually becoming a team lead.

---
###After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community?  
want to be role model for girls, be invloved with Ada whether through panels or just helping in anyway I can. The community aspect of Ada is one of the things that excites me the most about the program.  
Additionally one of the area that I'm interested in potentially working is in the video game industry, backend. While the numbers of women working in the overall software industry is extremely low the statistics for women in the video game industry are even worse and thats a glass ceiling that I would gladly break. Because I think it goes without saying that young women and girls should be able to access the fun the video games have without being insulted and verbally assulted by other players just because they're women and using a headset. 

---
###Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?  
Like any person I've made my fair share of mistakes in my life, however, one of the things that was ingrained in me since I was younger was that no matter what kind of mistake you make you have to at least learn something from it so that you at least won't make the same mistake twice, and trying to learn from my mistakes has let me grow a lot as a person and learn to be more self aware.  
However, the one mistake that seems most applicable comes from my high school days. I have a very non-traditional educational background, I've been to private, public, charter, homeschool, and in high school things went even further when my father's job got transfered to India. When I was touring the school that I ended up attending, we learned that I could choose to take either Business or Computer class. I was leaning towards Computers until we passed the class room and I remember seeing only one other girl in a class of about 20 students. I ended up signing up Business because I was too self-consicous to be such an extreme minority, as well as coming in the middle of the year. That experience is something that I regreted almost immeditly, not only did I learn next to nothing new in Business class, but the computer class got to do a lot of fun things and ended having a team in an Indian national robotics competition.   

---
